Let's talk about leadership styles.
Leadership styles determine
how the leader makes decisions,
how he relates to the members
of his team, how he tries
to motivate them, etc.
A lot has been written about this.
You have to keep in mind that there
are endless models or classifications,
matrix, etc., which classify
the different types of leader
according to their style.
Knowing them all would be impossible,
it makes no sense.
There is infinity.
And we talk about transformational,
charismatic, servile, autocratic,
etc. leader.
We're going to do today is deepen
the most basic model of
all, which is to establish
three styles of leadership.
Autocratic, democratic and delegative
or laissez-faire, which is to
let do.
Now we will see.
And before we go deeper into
the model, I want you to consider
why it is interesting to know
at least one of the models,
like today's one, in what it
will help us.
Well, when you understand
the different types of leadership,
it's easier for you to make a
diagnosis and understand what
style you tend to be.
And from that knowledge it is easier
to be a better leader or develop
yourself, because it is part of
a situation in which you understand
how you behave.
That on one side.
This will help us make a
diagnosis.
And on the other hand, and more
importantly, it is that leadership
styles are not good or bad in themselves,
but what we have to do is
understand what is the most
suitable leadership style
for the situation we are in.
The situation depends on many
things, but it mainly depends
on the type of work, the type
of function, the tasks you
have to exercise.
And it also depends on the members
of your team, how they are, what
their motivations are, what their
abilities, their experience, etc.
So, in the end, what I want you
to stay with is that you can lead
in thousands of different ways,
that each person has a certain tendency
to one style of leadership or
another, but that the important
thing is to understand what
styles of leadership are
most suitable for each of
the circumstances in which
we are.
Therefore, from all this knowledge
it is easier for you to find
the style of leadership that
best comes to you and that
is more suitable for the
situation you are in.
As I told you, we will deepen into a
model that establishes that there are
or that classifies the styles of
leadership in three, that this is
not white, we have the most authoritarian
style, which is called autocratic,
and in the other we have a style
that is that we can call it delegative,
that is laissez faire, that I
say it in French with poor pronunciation,
but because it is that this
term is used in this, and
in the middle we have a
style that is more democratic.
Let's describe one by one, let'
s see what the features are.
We are in the authoritarian
style.
In this case, we talk about the authoritarian
leader when the decisions are taken
by the leader, who in this case
is the boss, and also has absolute
control over everything that happens
within his team.
There is little freedom.
Team members act basically by
coercion, following the
rules, that is, the leader what
he does is direct the team
giving orders, point.
Communication, as you can imagine,
goes from above down, the boss, which
in this case the leader and the boss
is the same, determines the orders
and the others what they do
is act in accordance.
I want you to keep in mind that, as
a point to the favor, productivity
is very high.
Decisions are made quickly and everything
fits very well, everything
works very well, like a clock.
If we analyze the democratic
style, in this case, as in the
authoritarian, the decisions
are taken by the leader.
What happens is that in this style,
which is also called participative
or sometimes called consultative,
it is called very different
ways, decisions are
taken by the boss.
The leader takes into account
the different ranges.
Imagine since the most seemed the
authoritarian in which the ideas are
proposed by the leader and what
he does is consult them to see what
you think.
Even a style that is more
participative yet where the leader
does is promote ideas that
arise from the team, because
imagine, from a brainstorming.
In this case, the control that the
leader has has so much need to have
absolute control and what happens,
one of the benefits is that in
this case the team members do not
act only by coercion, by
obligation, by norm, but
that in many cases what they take
is motivation because they
feel partisans.
That makes them act.
Therefore, the leader here does
not only direct by orders, but
what he does is like a guide.
Support the team and ultimately work them out.
Communication does flow both
from top to bottom and from
bottom to top and I want
you to keep in mind that in
this case productivity is lower.
Think about it, when we have
teams where we can accommodate
everyone, decisions are made
more democratically, etc.,
well, because decisions are slower.
It is possible and is often one of the benefits.
In the end, better decisions
are made, more value is generated, and so on.
Better ideas come out, yes, but it'
s slower.
between a dictatorship and
a democracy.
In a dictatorship,
everything works, say,
much faster.
In democracy, productivity is
a little lower.
Now we go to the extreme where
freedom is greater.
In this case, decisions are not
even taken by the leader, but
by the team members who are
organized into committees or
whatever.
This is where there is less
control.
With regard to motivation, it may
seem that when the style is very
delegative, with a lot of freedom,
the motivation could be
greater, but in many cases
it is not.
In many cases, there is
a lot of dismotivation.
The motivation here will depend
on how the team members are.
There are people who like this style because
they are very proactive people, who
like to contribute, etc.
And there are people who don't like
that, who like to know what they
have to do at every moment.
Depending on the profile of the
team members, this leadership
style can be very motivating
or very dismotivating.
In this case, leaders give little
direction, give little
guidance, get little, participate
little.
Communication here is more common
that it goes from below, from
the team members, to the leader
who basically what they do is to
inform you of what is happening,
reporting you than the reverse,
as we were saying.
Productivity is very
low because the...
They often generate situations
where roles are not well
defined, etc.
As we can see, this style, this
extreme, has quite a few disadvantages.